.\"             -*-Nroff-*-
.\"  Freely distributable under the terms of the GPL
.TH LPR 1 "11 Sep 2009 " "" ""
.SH NAME
lpr \- Spool files to a printer
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlpr\fP spools a file to the specified printer device. MSYS provides
two separate implementations: \fBlpr-basic.exe\fP and \fBlpr-enhanced\fP
(the latter is a script, not a binary executable).

\fBlpr-basic.exe\fP is suitable for most simple printing needs; it can
send "raw" data to any installed Windows printer. This is most useful
for raw text, for sending plain PostScript files to PostScript-compatible
printers, and for re-sending \fI.prn\fP files generated using Windows'
own print-to-file capabilities to the specific printer for which the
\fI.prn\fP file was generated. For more information, see `man lpr-basic'.

\fBlpr-enhanced\fP is an MSYS extension which supports many of the advanced
capabilities of a true Unix-style lpr implementation. It can pre-process
data before sending it to the printer and apply various filters. For
instance, different printer configurations can be established, all associated
with the same physical device.  One configuration could pre-processes data
using nroff and gswin32c.exe (ghostscript), while another might simply specify
landscape rather than portrait mode, etc.  All of this is controlled by the
associated \fI/etc/printcap\fP file; this configuration is both the source of
\fBlpr-enhanced\fP's power, and its major drawback. Unlike \fBlpr-basic.exe\fP,
\fBlpr-enhanced\fP requires extensive user configuration. For more information,
see the documentation embedded within \fB/usr/bin/lpr-enhanced\fP, if installed.
Note that, to use \fBlpr-enhanced\fP, it may be necessary to remove
\fB/usr/bin/lpr.exe\fP, and copy \fB/usr/bin/lpr-enhanced\fP to \fB/usr/bin/lpr\fP.
.SH AUTHORS
Man page Written by Charles Wilson.

